# The Tears of a Clown

1.

Winthrop is sitting in the rocking chair on his front porch on Butler Street. His daughter Camillia comes walking up to
the porch, looking agitated.

"Daddy, I gotta tell you about what just happened."

"Sit yourself down and tell me what wrong."

"Hampton, he show up at my apartment round six this morning. He look terrible. His eyes all bloodshot, his shirt button
up all wrong, his shoes weren't tied, and he didn't even have no jacket on, despite the cold."

"Say what?"

"And he was all shakin', like maybe he been doin' blow all night. And he just took hold my hand, kneeling down before
me, and he start moaning, sounding like he a dyin' hound. And then after a bit, he get up and run out the door."

"My baby, maybe I got him all wrong. It sound like he all crazy about you, and when I told you ignore him, it done drive
him mad. And maybe I was just jealous. You know, ole folk like me, we done too easily forget about the passion of youth.
Look, what we gotta do is go see Claude, and let him know his nephew in a bad place."


2.

Claude and Gertie meet with Thaddeus and Alastair in the Shepherd Real Estate office.

Claude: "Look, y'all been friends with Hampton for a long time. And he actin' all crazy now. So we gotta figure out what wrong with him."

Gertie: "He talk about y'all all the time, and we know he listen to you. So maybe you can help us out here, and figure
out what going on with him?"

Thaddeus: "Hey, we ready to help you out, however we can."

Alastair: "Yeah, I'm with Thaddeus here!"

Gertie: "We do appreciate you, so please go see him as soon as you can. We gotta know what gone wrong with my boy."

Thaddeus and Alastair leave the office. They meet Winthrop at the door as he is entering.

Claude looks up from his desk and surprise. "Winnie, what bring you here?"

"You been saying how Hampton been looking mighty upset."

Claude raises his eyebrows. "And?"

"I done figured out what wrong with the boy."

Winthrop pauses for dramatic effect, but at that moment, Corny and Clarence, returning from their trip to Norway, enter
the office.

Claude gives Winthrop the stop sign with his hand. "Winnie, you gonna have to wait a minute. These boys bringing me
important news.

"Boys, whachoo learn?"

Clarence steps forward towards the desk. "We ain't got nothing to worry about. Forrest swear he ain't got no intention
toward Denmark. He *is* looking to expand a bit, but he got his eye turned toward Swansea. He say the Boucher family up
there looking weak, and stupid shit like car jackings and what not getting out of hand. He thinking time to bring some
order to that mess."

Claude tells them "Boys, you done a good job. You all come by Elsie's Bar tonight, and the drinks is on me."

Corny and Claude both mumble their thanks and leave.

"All right Winnie, whachoo got for me?"

"Yes sir, well, I mean to get right to the point here. Ain't no sense beating around the bush, and making a whole speech
when a few words will suffice. Rambling on but saying nothing be a foolish waste of time. And y'all busy people so I
surely don't wanna waste your time."

Gertie turns her head at a 45Â° angle and stares at Winthrop. "Right, so maybe you gonna get to the point sometime
today."

"The point is exactly what I'm getting to, and I don't mean to delay getting there one bit longer. Because dealing with
such important folk as y'all, one gotta be brief. And I could go on and on saying nothing with a whole lot of words, but
that ain't my way."

Claude puts his head in his hand for a moment, then looks up at Winthrop and says, "So you gonna tell us what up, or you
gonna just keep telling us that you about to tell us what up?"

Winthrop rings his hands a little, but continues: "Now, I ain't pleased to bring you this news, but the problem with
Hampton's mental condition be my daughter."

Claude gives Winthrop a puzzled look. "How she the problem?"

"Well, sir, it seem your boy Hampton done fall hard for her. And I told her to pay him no mind. Cause, you know, the
whole thing don't make no sense. But he apparently taking her rejection pretty hard, and I do believe that why he acting
so strange. She sent me this text that Hampton sent her... So let me read it to y'all."

Winthrop takes his smartphone out of his pocket and lifts it with a flourish before his face. He clears his throat, and
begins reading:

"You know you like heaven to me, the most beautiful woman I ever seen, and I just wanna lay my head on your ebony
bosom..." There's more, but y'all get the idea.







