# IV. What's Goin' On?

## 1.

Sheriff Jim Joyce was a kindly looking and plump black man of about 70.  His rheumy eyes gave one the impression that
they had seen a lot, and had had to overlook much of it. Having taken a look around the dining room, he left it to his
deputy to photograph, and joined Claude and Gertie in the living room.

"So tell me what happened."

"Well me and Gertie was sittin' here in the livin' room, havin' a nightcap, when we heard a crash out in the dinin'
room." Claude paused, and cupped his face with his hand, as though the memory of the events he was describing was hard
to bear.

Joyce encouraged him. "Go on. "

"Well, you know there been these robberies around town these past few weeks. And you know how Miss Gladys done got shot
when she confronted the burglar."

Joyce nodded.

"So I was in no mood to take a chance that the same thing gonna happen to me or my Gertie here. I grabbed the gun I knew
Gertie kept in that there side table, and crept across the way to the dining room. It was dark, and the moon was comin'
in the window, so all I could see was a dark shape. And I figured I better shoot before he does. And that's about all
there is to it."

"Claude, that all seems straightforward enough. I know Winthrop was your boy, and you wouldn't have no reason to kill
him. But what the hell was he doin' climbing in the window here at night?"

"That I couldn't rightly tell ya. I been puzzlin' over it myself."

"Well, we gonna have to have an investigation, like with any shooting death. But I imagine in this case it just gonna be
a formality."

Claude said, "I know you'll take good care of this, Jim."

The two of them shook hands at the door. Claude added, "Don't forget to stop by the farm and pick up some collards and mustard greens."

"Thank you. You know I do appreciate how kindly you and your family always done treated me."

With that Sheriff Joyce walked across the porch and out into the cool and breezy February night.

Claude close the door behind him, took out his cell phone, and called Thaddeus. "You and Alastair meet me at Elsie's. Vite vite."

He walked over to Gertie and gave her a hug. "Don't you worry none now baby, I'm taking care of everything." Then he
followed Joyce out into the darkness.

## 2.

As it was Saturday night, two women were working the bar at Elsie's. Agnes Day was bartending, while Donna Nobis bussed
the tables and washed glasses. Both were zaftig, cheerful black women in their early 40s. And both greeted Claude, their
new boss, effusively when he walked in.

At the bar, he asked Agnes for a double whiskey on the rocks. Once he was served his drink, he went to the back of the
bar, where the crowd was thin, and sat at an empty table.

A few minutes later, Thaddeus and Alastair walked in together. Claude had been watching the door, and waved them over as
soon as they entered. He rose and shook their hands, and indicated that they should sit. Then he called out, "Donna
honey, get us three more of these whiskeys."

Once the drinks arrived, and Thaddeus and Alastair had time to take a couple of sips, Claude, after first looking around the table, addressed them in a low voice.

"Hampton, he outta control. Tonight, he done shot ole Winthrop dead."

Thaddeus and Alastair stared at him in disbelief.

After a moment of silence, Thaddeus asked, "Why he do that?"

"Boys, this can't leave this room, but I think he was gunnin' for me."

Alastair shook his head like he was trying to shake off a horse fly. "OK, but why would he do *that*?"

"Why? Why the boy be jealous then I'm gonna run the family businesses. He think that since Will was his daddy, it only
natural that he be put in charge. But the boy, too young, too inexperienced, and way too reckless. Him being in charge
would be the ruin of alla us."

Claude paused, and looked meaningfully at Thaddeus and Alastair. Once he judged that they had absorbed the first part of his pitch, he continued.

"And now he running around recklessly killin' folk, and actin' crazy out in public. He be bringin' police attention and
dishonor to the whole family, and you know, when I say that, I include the two of you as bein' as good as kin."

Thaddeus and Alastair nodded to indicate their appreciation of what Claude was saying.

"Y'all know, I love the boy like he were my own son, but comes a time when a body gotta cut off a cancer to save the rest of the body."

Thadeus asked, "So what you want us to do?"

"Imma take the rap for shooting Winthrop. I already told sheriff Joyce it was me who done it, cause I thought he was
that burglar who been operating round here of late. But I told Hampton since he's known to have been disputing with
Winthrop, he better get out of town. I told him you two would put him up at Clemson for a couple of weeks, until the
investigation was finished."

Alastair said, "Yeah, we could do that."

Claude shook his head. "But that ain't gonna solve our problem. Unfortunately, behavin' the way he is, the boy gotta go."

Thaddeus's eyes shot open wide, and he said, "But he's our friend!"

"I know, and he my nephew, and we all love him. But like I said, sometimes a part gotta be sacrificed for the good of
the whole. And this here one of those times. Now, is you boys part of this team, or ain't you?"

Both of his interlocutors mumbled that of course they were part of the team.

So here's what you gonna do. You gonna pick up Hampton from his apartment first thing in the morning. He already
expectin' you to be drivin' him up to Clemson. But along the way, you'll be passin' Sumter National Forest. One a you
gonna tell him that you got a school biology project or some such nonsense, and you gotta take some quick samples for
your class project. And it's just gonna be a quick detour."

"Once y'all in the park, head over to Wambah swamp. They have a park map at the entrance, so it be easy to find out
where it is. You tell Hampton you gotta take some water samples from that swamp. I got a gun for each of you. You do
what you gotta do, and once it done, you lose both the guns and Hampton into that swamp. If you weigh him down properly,
ain't likely nobody ever gonna find a body in there unless they decide to drain the whole thing. And then y'all go on up
to Clemson, and go about your studies."

Alastair asked, "And you sure there ain't no alternative?"

"Boys, he already done killed one man. How many more dead you wanna see? Better one more dead than a whole bunch of us goin' to our graves."

Thaddeus and Alastair both nodded.

"Thank you boys. Believe me, I ain't gonna forget your service. Now let's go on in the back, and I get you what you need."

