# V: Save the Last Dance for Me


## 1.

On Monday morning, Hampton woke up on Hiram's couch. He was startled to find Hiram sitting in an armchair, apparently
waiting for his eyes to open. For as soon as they did so, Hiram said, "I have some bad news, my brother."

"What is it?"

"Camellia, she dead."

"What? How could that be?"

"She ODed on fentanyl."

Hampton was quiet for some time. He finally got up off the couch and said, "This is on me. I treated the poor girl real
rough." He began putting on his clothes. "I gotta go down there today."

Hiram stood up, holding up his hands to say stop. "Don't do that. You know Claude gonna have you killed if he finds out
he ain't already had you killed."

"So what you think I should do?"

"They's havin' the funeral on Wednesday. Then everybody gettin' together at Elsie's afterwards. I think you just stick
to your plan: confront Claude in front of plenty of witnesses. Except you just do it at Elsie's instead of at the
fellowship dinner."

Hampton stared at the floor for a while. Then he said, "OK, that make sense. But I think I need to go for a walk right
now."

"OK, I got philosophy class in a little while. Why you don't take the spare key, so you can let yourself in if you get
back before I do?"

Hampton did as Hiram recommended. He drifted into the head shop on the corner, the business with the Bob Marley portrait
on its wall. He wandered the store looking vacantly at the African drums, tie-dye T-shirts, hookahs, and bongs. After a
few minutes, our young white girl with dreadlocks, who had been sitting behind the cash register fiddling with her smart
phone, stood up and asked him "Is there something you're looking for?"

Hampton had hardly noticed that she was there, and was startled that she had spoken to him. "Yes, I'm looking for
someone I could never find."

The girl chuckled, but uneasily. "If you know you can't find them, why would you look for them?"

"Why would I look for her if I could find her? Then she would turn out to be a whore, just like my mama."

The girl looked at Hampton with distaste. "We try not to be so judgmental here, you know. But if I can help you find
something, just say so." She sat back down, and resumed scrolling around on her phone.

Hampton left the shop and went across the street and into a small bookstore.

[what books does he see?]

After a few minutes he left the store and walked up Devine Street. When he reached Queen Street he turned left, and
wandered aimlessly through blocks of Victorian houses until he was exhausted enough to dull the edge of his grief.

When he arrived back in Five Points, the neighborhood had come alive with some strange sort of happening: by a large
fountain, a five-piece band was playing what he thought of as hippie music. A crowd was gathered around the musicians,
some of the audience merely watching and listening, but many others writhing around in some weird dance that involved
wiggling their arms around a good bit. Many of those dancing, and many of those not, wore tie-dye T-shirts, and often
there were images of skulls and skeletons on those shirts.

Hampton approached an older man who was among those just listening. He asked, "Excuse me sir, what happenin' here?"

"It's the Jerry festival."

"What's a Jerry festival?"

"You know, Jerry Garcia, from the Grateful Dead?"

"Grateful dead? Why they grateful about bein' dead?"

"It was a band. You've never heard of them?"

"Nope. Sounds like a dumb name to me: I don't see why anyone be grateful about bein' dead."

Hampton listened to the band for a few minutes. The music wasn't bad, but he found the crowd a little disconcerting, and
so he headed back to Hiram's apartment.

When he let himself in with his borrowed key, Hiram had already returned, and was talking to someone on his phone.
"Yeah, we go ahead on Wednesday like we planned." Hiram looked up at Hampton, and then said into his phone "Look, I
gotta go now."

Hiram put away his phone in his pocket, and asked Hampton, "How  you doing?"

"Bout as well as could be expected. Who was you talkin' to?"

"Oh, jes one of my classmates: we doin' a presentation this week."

Hampton nodded. "You done with class for the day?"

"Yup."

"What you say we go out and get a few drinks?"

"Yes my brother, I can imagine you could need a few."

The two old friends left the apartment, and drank at the Salty Nut Caf√© for several hours before staggering back to
Hiram's apartment.



## 2.

Meanwhile, back in Denmark, Claude and Gertie were seated in her living room.

[Scene with Claude and Gertie worrying about what had become of Thaddeus and Alastair.]

## 3.

On Wednesday morning, Camellia's funeral service was held at the Rome Baptist Church, with Reverend Hemingway presiding,
and then she was buried at the Denmark Cemetery. There had been talk of burying her the same day as her father, but his
body was still being held by the coroner.

The reception after the funeral was at Elsie's, which was closed to the public for the day. Cliff's Seafood and Grill,
from nearby Bamberg, was catering the event, and Donna and Agnes were working the bar. The attendees had initially been
in a somber mood, but as more and more drinks were served, their gloom gradually lifted, and the conversation level
steadily rose.

But the noisy bar turned silent when, at around 3 o'clock, Hampton and Hiram walked through the entrance. Claude had
raised a glass of whiskey in the air, about to propose a toast, but the drink froze in midair. Ambrose, who had been
sitting by himself in the back of the bar, jumped up, and shouted "Claude, what the hell is this?"

Hampton said, "That's right, Ambrose: Claude no doubt told you that I was dead by now." Hampton turned and stared at his
mother. "Mama, did you know your new boyfriend ordered the killin' of your son? And what's more, he the one who killed
your husband too."

With that, Hampton pulled out a pistol, and pointed it at Claude's head. "My best old Uncle Claude, why you don't tell
everyone here what you done?"

Claude seemed about to speak, but then he grabbed a hold of Gertie, pulled out a pistol himself, and pointed it at her
head. "Hampton, unless you want to see your mama die before your eyes, you best put that gun away."

While the drama unfolding at the front of the bar had captured everyone's attention, Ambrose had quietly moved up close
to Hampton, and now pulled out a gun of his own, and pointed it at Hampton. "Boy, you done killed my daddy, and you
pretty much the one who killed my sis. So I think it pretty much about time for you to die yo'self."

Just then, the door of the bar shattered inwards, and a dozen armed FBI agents rushed into the room. Their chief called
out, "Everybody, drop your weapons right now!"

Hampton, Claude, and Ambrose each dropped his gun to the floor, and raised his hands above his head.

The leader of the raid then announced:

"Hampton Shepherd, I'm arresting you on the charges of the murder of Winthrop Branch, Thaddeus Stevens, and Alastair
McIntyre."

"Claude Shepherd, you're under arrest on the charges of racketeering, conspiracy to commit murder, and the distribution
of schedule one narcotics."

"Gertrude Shepherd, you're under arrest on the charge of racketeering."

"Ambrose Branch, you are under arrest on the charge of illegal possession of a handgun."

The four prisoners were led away into four separate cars and driven off. The rest of the attendees at the reception
gradually recovered from their shock, and wandered out of the bar a few at a time.

Soon, the only people left were a couple of serious drinkers seated in a corner, Agnes and Donna, who were cleaning up,
and Hiram, who sat at the bar sipping a scotch. The door open, and a tall, slim black man, elegantly dressed and gray
trousers, a gray button-down shirt, and a black leather jacket, and wearing dark, mirrored glasses, stepped into the
bar. He took off the glasses and blinked his eyes a couple of times, adjusting to the darkness within the building. When
he could see again, he spotted Hiram at the bar, and said, "Hiram, what up?"

"Forrest, my man, how you doing?"

Forest had walked across the room, and the two men fist bumped. For sat down in a stool next to Hiram, and said to
Agnes, "Get me one of whatever he's having." Then he asked Hiram, "Everything go according to plan?"

"You betcha. All of the Shepherds carted off, leavin' no one in charge..."

"Except us!"

"Yup, except us."

They finished their drinks, got up from the bar, and stepped out into the sunshine pouring down on Magnolia Avenue.

Forrest asked, "Hey, where'd you find that guy who looked so much like Hampton's daddy?"

"I just ran into him one day over in Bamberg. When I saw him, I couldn't believe how much he looked like ole Will. So I
gave him a couple hundred dollars to wander around in the street on a night I knew Hampton would be around, and plant
the idea in his head that Claude had killed his daddy."

"And did Claude kill Will?"

"He mighta done. I really got no clue. But it worked out OK, didn't it?"

"Sure did. But how did you get Claude to run out of that gospel program like that?"

"A coupla sodium phosphate tablets -- them things they use to clear you out before a procedure -- in his scotch did the
trick!"

"You gave my man the shits!" As Forrest laughed the sun sparkled off of his gold teeth.

"And how do you come up with the idea for all this?"

Now Hiram laughed. "You really can't figure it out?"


