# III. I Heard It Through the Grapevine

## 1.

Claude, Gertie, Winthrop, Camellia, Thaddeus, and Alastair are gathered at Elsie's Bar to discuss Hampton's mental
state. They all pulled up chairs around a large table in the main room.

Claude launched the discussion by asking, "OK, we know what wrong with the boy?"

Thaddeus responded, "Well, he told us he's feeling all out of sorts, but he ain't told us why. And when we try to pin
him down, he gets all squirmy."

Alastair added, "Yeah, he's a crafty dude, always managing to dodge our questions with some pun or what not."

Gertie asked, "Anything we could do to cheer the boy up?"

Alastair said, "He seems excited about the gospel show tonight. He met with the group leader for a while over at the real estate office."

Claude smiled. "The boy always did love him some gospel. Makes me happy to know we'll see him there tonight. Thad, Al,
just make sure he show up, alright?"

Thaddeus responded, "Done, Mr. Claude!"

Then he and Alistair got up, said their goodbyes, and left the bar.

Claude turned to Gertie and told her, "Why don't you get on home and rest? Me and Winthrop here got some business to attend to."

Gertie got up, leaned over, and kissed Claude on the cheek. "See you at home, sugar. And you take care now, Winnie. And
don't you fret about your girl and Hampton. It'll be just fine."

When she had left the bar, Claude said to Winthrop, "Let's get ourselves to the back room. Hampton be here soon."

Winthrop asked Camellia, "Did you bring a book like I told you?"

Camellia reached into her purse and pulled out a small romance novel. "Yes, daddy."

"OK, sit yourself here reading, or even just pretending to read, for all it matters, and Hampton should be along soon."

Camellia nodded, and opened her book.

Claude and Winthrop went into the back, and pulled up two chairs near a small service window, which would allow them to
hear what was going on in the main room. And giving it was only mid-afternoon, and the bar was mostly empty, they
thought that they ought to be able to hear whatever was said between Hampton and Camellia.

Winthrop began two months into a story, but Claude hushed him, saying, "Hampton coming in the front door now. You gotta keep quiet."

Hampton entered singing Blue Oyster Cult's song "Don't Fear the Reaper" in a loud voice. He stops singing when he
notices Camellia sitting at her table.

"Hampton, how you been?"

"Yeah, I been fine."

"You been sending me a whole lotta texts, and I been meaning to respond..."

Hampton cuts her off. "I ain't sent you nothing."

"Whachoo talking bout? You know damn well you been sending me texts. And they was kinda sweet. But now you being mean,
and that sweetness turning kind of sour."

"You honest?"

"Say what?"

"You fair?"

"I have no idea what you getting at."

"I'm just saying, if you honest and fair, then just stop being so beautiful."

"That don't make no sense. Why someone beautiful can't be honest and fair?"

"Cause beauty like you got turns men into liars. I once said I loved you."

"Yeah, that what you made me believe."

"You never should've believed me. Cause I never loved you."

"I sure was fooled."

"Listen, you ought to give up on men, and become one of them church ladies who shakes around and cries on Sundays when
the Holy Spirit grabs ahold of her. Cause otherwise you just gonna be breeding sinners like me."

"Where your daddy at?"

"He home."

"Good. Let that fool stay there." He turned to head toward the exit door, but then paused and looked back to Camellia.

Camellia shoots a worried look back at the service window behind which Claude and her father are ensconced. Her father
lifts up his hand so she can see it and gestures that she should keep pretending they are not there.

"Just don't be with no man. Or if you're gonna have a man pick a really dumb one. Cause the smart ones know you're gonna
be out whoring around with their friends and making fools of them. But better you just become one of them church ladies.
So you take care."

Hampton again began to leave, but again turned back.

"I know about you shine-eye girls: you can't accept the face our Lord done give you, so you gotta go purchase all fancy
crap to put on a fake face. Well, I'm sick of it. I'm done with the whole business."

Hampton turned and walked rapidly out of the bar.

Camellia buried her face in her hands, and began crying softly. "What happened to him?" she said, mostly to herself.

Claude and her father came out of the back room and sat down on either side of her at the table.

Camellia said to them, "I can barely stand to see that boy in such a state. He was the best of Denmark, and now he just like a brokedown palace."

Claude responded, "I don't think it all about you. There something else be troubling that boy. And whatever it is, I suspect it kind of dangerous."


## 2.

Hampton, after leaving Elsie's Bar, walked the mile over to Rome Baptist Church. Along the way, he passed some of the
worst housing in Denmark: shacks with rusted out metal roofs, and the dilapidated trailers under the live oaks at the 
Hands on Home mobile park.

After passing such decay, coming to the clean, brick facade of the church was a relief.
Hampton passed through the white double entrance doors and found that The Spiritual Gospel Singers were
already setting up their equipment inside the church. He greeted Norbert, who introduced him to the rest of the group.

"I brought the song I like you to add to your program tonight. Let's go over it."

[song about Cain and Abel inserted here: under development...

Cain was jealous of his closest kin

And so he killed his brother dead

The Lord called out his heinous sin

And placed a curse upon his head

]

"Now, when y'all get to the line about 'And he killed his brother dead,' the music gotta stop, so that line could be
heard real clear throughout the church, OK?"

The group rehearsed the song for a few minutes with Hampton listening. happy with what he heard, he told them "you boys
sound great! And I do appreciate y'all doing this for me. I know you already getting paid something but here's a little
something extra to thank y'all."

He handed Norbert a $100 bill.

"That's mighty kind of you, brother."

They shook hands, then Hampton went to the back of the church and sat in the last pew, while the group resumed setting
up their equipment. Hearing the church door open behind him, Hampton turned in his seat and saw that Winthrop had
entered the church. He rose to greet him.

"Yo Winthrop, how you doing? Claude coming tonight?"

"Yeah, and Gertie too. Imma go get me a seat up front."

"Alright, I be up there myself soon enough."

The church door opened again, and in walked Hiram.

Hampton waved to him, and said, "Brother, I gotta have a word with you. Come have a seat."

Hiram sat down beside Hampton and asked him, "What up, my brother?"

"You know how that old drunk said it was Claude that done in my daddy?"

"You think there was something to that?"

"Well, I was already wondering about it myself. It was all a bit too convenient for ole Claude, weren't it?"

"True dat."

(As they spoke, the church was gradually filling with people coming to hear the evening's performance.)

"But I ain't sure yet, so I devised a little test for tonight."

"A test?"

"Yeah, I added a song to the program for tonight, about Cain and Abel. You know, with someone killing his own brother.
And I wanna see how Claude react to hearing that song."

"So how I gonna help you?"

"I want you to watch him too. Then after, we gonna compare notes, and join our judgments about whether he done it or
not."

"Well, I down with that."

The door to the church opened again, and Claude and Gertie walked in together, followed immediately by Winthrop and
Camellia.

Hampton whispered to Hiram, "Go get a seat up front. I'm gonna sit on the opposite side of the church from you."

Hiram got up and moved to the front of the church, and Hampton himself rose to greet the new arrivals.

Claude spoke first. "How you doing, Hampton?"

[clever answer]

Claude responded, "Hampton, I can't figure out what the hell you saying!"

Hampton turned to Winthrop. "Didn't you used to sing gospel?"

"Yeah, and people used to love my voice."

"And just what did you voice?"

Winthrop looked confused, and hesitantly replied, "Well, I was a baritone."

"So you added the barest of tones?"

Winthrop was totally nonplussed, and could not even formulate an answer. But he was saved from having to do so by the
commencement of the evening's musical program. The musicians were creating background color as the church's minister
began to give the welcome.

Claude said, "We better go get our seats," and they all made their way to the front of the church.

Gertie, already seated, said to Hampton, "Come sit next to me," and patted the chair to her left.

Hampton responded, pointing to the chair next to Camellia, "Thank you mama, but that metal chair got a more magnetic
attraction for me."

He took a seat on the floor next to Camellia, put his head in her lap.

"Now this here is the country where I belong."

Camellia pushed his head away, and Gertie, scowling, told him "Son, you get yourself up off the floor and sit in a chair
like a normal person."

Hampton pulled himself up into his seat, and, leaning over, quietly asked Camellia, "You think I too rude?"

Camellia, turning up her nose, answered, "I ain't thinking nothing."

"Now ain't that the normal state of a woman's mind."

"Whachoo mean?"

"Nothing." Hampton guffawed at his own wit.

Camellia pulled back, giving Hampton a quizzical look. "You in a jolly mood tonight."

"Why shouldn't I be jolly? My daddy ain't been dead but a couple of hours, and look how jolly my mama is."

"A couple of hours? He been dead a couple of months."

"Well, if it been a couple months, then no wonder she done forgot all about him. Who knows, maybe when he been gone half
a year, ain't nobody in the whole town still remember him."

Before Camellia could respond, the reverend Hemingway, from the microphone at his pulpit, said, "Good evenings, folks,
and praise the Lord!"

"Praise the Lord!" the congregation called back.

[Hemingway's welcome]

The Spiritual Gospel Singers took up their instruments and microphones, and began their program with "God is Still in
Charge," followed by "Mississippi Poor Boy." Then Norbert addressed the crowd. "Now we gonna introduce a brand new song
wrote especially for this occasion."

As they sang Hampton's composition, he carefully watched his uncle. The third time the group paused the instrumental
music and sang the line "He killed his brother dead," Claude Rose from his seat, turned to Gertie, and said, "Sorry, I
think I got me some food poisoning or something." He then moved swiftly down the center aisle of the church and out
through its double doors.

When the program had ended, Hampton lingered in the pew as the congregation filed out. When almost everyone had left, he
spotted Hiram on the other side of the church. He motioned him to come over and sit beside him.

Hampton stared at Hiram. "So whachoo think?"

"My man guilty as hell, that's what I think."

"Yeah, that what I think too."

"So whachoo gonna do?"

"I don't know. I gotta think on this for a bit."

Then the pair heard the door of the church opening behind them, and turned to find Thaddeus and Alastair walking up the
central aisle toward them.


Once the two pairs of friends were within a few feet of each other, Alastair said, while pointing to Hampton, "Brother,
we gotta have a word with you."

"Yeah, what up?"

"Your mama, she's real upset."

"What about?"

"Well, it seems Claude is real sick, and somehow, she feel you got something to do with it."

Thaddeus chimed, "She said she's been amazed at how you been acting."

"It's something when after all these years, a boy can still amaze his mama."

Alastair said, "She wants you to go round her place tonight before she goes off to sleep."

"Far be it from me disobey my mama."

Alastair looked askance at Hampton. "We were brothers once."

"So you saying we ain't brothers no more?"

"I'm saying a brother oughta let another brother know if something troubling him."

"I just ain't got no future ahead of me."

"Why you say that? You know Claude considers you like his own son."

"Yeah, and maybe he ain't looking forward to the son rise."


[playing upon the flute?]


The door of the church opens again, and Winthrop rushes up the central aisle to address Hampton.

"Hampton, your mama really anxious that you come see her."

Hampton squints one eye and gives Winthrop a quizzical look. "Winthrop, ain't this church shaped kinda like a pregnant sow?"

Winthrop, nonplussed, glances nervously around the church. "Yeah, I see what you saying: it is kinda like a pregnant sow."

Hampton looks around the church and shakes his head. "I stand corrected: it really look more like an angry gator, half submerged in the Congaree."

"Yeah, you right: it do look more like an angry gator."

"Well then, seeing we agree on that, you go tell my mama I be coming along soon enough."

[the witching hour]


## 3.

Claude, Thaddeus, and Alastair were gathered around a table in the back of Elsie's Bar, speaking in hushed tones, so
that their voices would certainly not be heard above the music of the jukebox.

Claude said, "The boy be mad. It ain't safe for him to be around Denmark in this state. I want y'all to convince him to
go back up to Clemson with you."

Alastair nodded: "Yeah, the first thing we gotta worry about is keepin' things on an even keel here in Denmark. And now
that you the one running things, so many people be depending upon you, so we behind whatever you need from us."

Thaddeus added, "Mister Claude, we know that you the wheel round which life in this town turns. And if that wheel stop
turnin', ten thousand things liable to go wrong. So we happy to bring Hampton up north with us."

Claude thanked the pair for their assistance, and they got up and walked out of the bar. On their way out, they passed
Winthrop on his way in.

Winthrop seated himself at Claude's table. Sotto voce, he told Claude, "I think Hampton goin' over to Gertie's place
now."

Claude responded, "OK, and what that got to do with me?"

Winthrop answered, "Well, ain't nobody better than a mother to draw the truth outta her son."

"True dat."

"I think what I'm gonna do is make my way over there and see if I can hear what he telling her. Then I report back to you."

"Winnie, I do appreciate you doing that for me, and I won't forget yo' loyalty."

Winthrop got up and walked down to the bar. Left by himself, Claude ordered a double scotch, and sat back down at this
table, drinking while staring vacantly at the neon moon of the bar's window lights.


## 4.

Gertie lived in one of the elegant homes at the north end of town, which she had shared with her husband until his
recent demise. She was sitting on the couch in her living room, watching a romance movie on Netflix while sipping a gin
and tonic, when Hampton walked up onto the wraparound porch and knocked on the front door.

Gertie, flustered at receiving such a late visitor, rose from the couch and peered out through the intricate let it
glass window of the front door to see who was there. When she recognized her son, she opened the door, and said
"Hampton! What you doing here at this hour?"

"Mama, we gotta talk."

"Well then come in. Take a seat."

She motioned Hampton to take a seat in a leather recliner next to the couch, and sat back down on the couch herself.

"So what up son?"

"I wanna know what's wrong with you."

"Well, you givin' offense to your daddy's memory, for one."

"Me? Mama, you the one hooking up with his brother just two months after he gone."

"Boy, I thought I taught you some manners when you was growin' up. You don't never talk to your mama that way!"

As they had been talking, Winthrop had crept up onto the porch, and tried to listen at a living room window. Finding he
could not hear what was being said, he walked across the porch to the dining room, slid open one of the windows, and
hoisted himself through it.

Unfortunately for him, as he did so, his foot collided with a side table placed next to the window, and knocked the
silver tea service it had hosted onto the floor, producing a great clatter.

Hampton jumped up out of his chair, and grabbing the handgun he knew Gertie kept in her sidetable, cried, "Mama, we got an intruder!"

He raced across the entrance hall and, seeing a figure silhouetted in the window of the darkened dining room, fired two shots.

Winthrop cried out, "Hampton, you done shot me," and collapsed onto the floor.

Gertie had followed close behind Hampton into the dining room.

Seeing the body on the floor, she asked, "Hampton, what the hell you done?"

She turned on the chandelier over the dining room table, and now they could both see who lay on the floor.

"Hampton, you done shot Winthrop!"

Hampton said, "What that interferin' old fool doing crawlin' in through yo window?"

"I don't know, but it don't mean you get to shoot him dead!"

Gertie thought frantically. "We gotta get Claude over here." She took out her cell phone and called Hampton's uncle.

"Claude, you better get over here right away. We got big trouble."

She listened for a moment, and then repeated "Just get over here."

"Mama, why don't we just say we thought we had us an intruder, and so I shot him."

"Son, people know you've been acting all crazy lately. They know you done fell for his daughter, and he was standing in
your way. You gonna have a hard time convincing the police you didn't know it was him."

The two of them stared at the body on the floor for a moment, and then Hampton said, "Let's get outta this room." He
turned the chandelier off, and they moved back into the living room and sat in silence, awaiting Claude's arrival.

A few minutes later, they heard a key in the front door. Claude entered and stared at his lover and his nephew, sitting
like penitents in the living room. "What's goin' on here?"

"Hampton done killed Winthrop dead."

Claude looked at them in disbelief. "How the hell that happen?"

Hampton replied, "The old idiot was climbin' in through the dining room window. I thought he was some burglar."

Claude kicked a footstool halfway across the room. "Dammit boy, ain't there no end to the trouble you aim to cause this
family?" he stared up at the ceiling for several seconds, and then said, "Show me the body."

The trio proceeded into the dining room, and Gertie flipped the chandelier back on. Claude studied the body lying on the
floor. He asked, "Y'all sure he's dead?"

Hampton, "Yeah, he dead all right."

Claude gave him a disdainful look. "So you some sort of medical examiner now or somethin'?"

"You don't believe me, you go check him out for yourself."

Claude walked over to the body, crouched down, and put his fingers on Winthrop's neck. "Yeah, he dead all right."

He rose back up, and, looking at Gertie, said, "Get me a whiskey. I gotta think for a minute." He walked back into the
living room and sat on the couch.

Gertie went down the central hallway to the kitchen in the back, and came back a minute later with a glass of whiskey on
the rocks. Claude gulped it down, and, raising the glass towards Gertie, said, "Get me another."

He drank his second whiskey more slowly, and when he was done, he stood up from the couch, and announced, "OK, here what
we gonna do. Hampton, gimme that gun you done shot him with."

Hampton handed the gun over to Claude, who took it back into the dining room, and fired a shot into the wall.

He looked back at Gertie and Hampton, who had followed him into the room. " Hampton, you gonna get back to your
apartment, stay put until morning. Thad and Al was head back up to Clemson anyway, so we gonna have them pick you up
first thing tomorrow, but they gonna say they left with you right after the gospel program. Now git."

"But..."

"No you don't say nothin', you just do what I tell you."

Reluctantly, Hampton turned and walked out the front door.

Gertie looked hesitantly at Claude. "I gotta tell you somethin'."

"Go on, woman, spit it out."

"Just before Hampton fired...

"Yes?"

"I heard him say yo name."

"Did he now?"
Claude took his phone out of his pocket, and called a name from his contact list. "Sheriff Joyce, it Claude Shepherd
here. There's been a terrible accident up at Gertie's place. Can you come over right now?"

He put his phone back in his pocket, and said to Gertie, "Everything gonna be all right."



