
V.2



Tuesday night, jittery with the anticipation of his confrontation in Denmark the
following day, to get to sleep Hampton took a couple of Unisom, along with a
couple of shots of Hiram's whiskey. As was often the case, sleeping under that
sort of influence made his dreams especially vivid and strange. 

*************

Hampton is sitting in a row of seats in an almost completely dark room. Suddenly
a spotlight kicks on, and he sees that Hiram is standing on the edge of a stage,
a few rows in front of him. Hiram declaims, as if an old-timey actor, "Tonight
we are presenting Hampton's life, parts one, two, and three. Just try not to be
a dick, 'cause your errors ain't funny."

He waves his arms as if casting a spell, and Hampton finds himself standing in
the middle of Magnolia Avenue. Looking up through a light purple rain, he sees
Camellia on the roof of Elsie's, singing down to him:

Do you remember that hot summer’s day?  
Go-in' to Finley Park, almost a date.  
We took a ride in Ole Sikes' truck of hay,  
Bouncin' all around like we was mere freight.  
We was all tired so we did a few lines,  
Blow we picked up from that old man Flynn;  
Rockin' to the music, beneath the pines,  
If we's havin' some fun, that mean we sin?  
I'm not carin' if I don't make the grade  
I'm not your thing, but you don't listen,  
Ignore me, fine, but I ain't throwin' shade,  
You can spit in the wind, just don't try pissin'.  
    Long as I can breathe and my eyes can see,  
    I love you still but Imma stay free.  

As she finishes her song, three older women, in black, hooded capes, appear
alongside her. They shout down to Hampton that their names are Revenge, Rape,
and Murder. They drag Camellia back from the edge of the roof, and Hampton hears
her cry for help as she disappears. He rushes through the door of the bar,
aiming to get up on the roof to save her.

But rather than the bar, Hampton find himself inside a circus tent.  Claude is
in the center ring, dressed as a lion tamer and holding a whip and a chair. But
instead of a lion, the animal he is trying to tame is a small rodent. When
Hampton looks closer, he sees the creature has Gertie's face. But rather than
becoming tamer, the rodent grows in size and then dances around the cage, first
singing "My Sharona," then, "Don't Fear the Reaper." 

The Gertie-rodent flaps her front paws as she prances about the ring. The paws
gradually fan out, and violin rivers of gold dust trail behind them. They are
the translucent, iridescent wings of a moth, and the moth lifts up in flight,
pulling Hampton up with it. Up through a hole where the rain rushes in through
the center of the calliope circus tent. Into splintered sunlight they rise.
Angelic choir in the distance sings:

O man, you sure done it now  
Alastair Macquistador! You gonna be scraped outta  
Gray pigstye for this. That cat, that holds  
his Regex spinning on a letterbox, will be piped  
through poppycock. In the ninth inning. A Macquistador,  
but afraid to speak? Run away in shame, Alastair!  

Hampton gradually found himself gently drifting down through myriad branches of
snow-laden fir trees. Shimmering diamond flakes laid transient spider web
paintings as though X-rays of the skeletons of the trees 

Far off in the distance, he saw a wild cat on the prowl. As he began to trudge
through the snow, he found Hiram by his side, whispering in his ear "You're
being a dick for the second time."

Hampton felt like an ass. What was he doing in this snowy forest anyway? He had
to make like a hockey player and get the puck out of here!  He turned to Hiram
to tell him as much, but his friend was vanishing, at last, leaving only his
smile behind.

There slowly emerged through the lacy filigree on the branches of the firs some
sad, old men. 

"We run this town," they told him in unison.

"What town are you talking about? We're out in the middle of the woods." 

"Is that what you think? Take a look around you."

Hampton did so and saw that what a moment ago had been fir trees were now the
pillars holding up the roof of a courtroom. The jury box held an assortment of
lively creatures: 

A white rabbit called him to stand up before the judge. Hampton was surprised to
find that the judge was Claude. He was wearing a white wig like he was a judge
in England or something, and he called Hampton to approach the bench more
closely.

Claude leaned forward and whispered to him, "My lack of mercy ain't strained by
the thought of you gettin' the chair. Imma rain violence down on you two ways:
one, right on your ass, and two, on anyone who take your side. Now you git on
back to your seat."

Upon returning to the defense table, Hampton found that Hiram was apparently his
defense attorney. Hiram leaned over in his turn and said confidentially to
Hampton, "This whole trial is a whole lotta fuss about nothin'."

"You sure 'bout that?"

Hiram nodded and continued:

"Look, you ain't no hero. You look like a lion but you roar like a lamb. You
wearin' that badge of bitterness like you think it a badge of honor. You a
hollow man, and you change friends like you change hats."

Hiram begins to laugh while repeatedly tilting his head back. But each time he
does so, his laugh sounds more and more like a cackle, and his beak grows long
and pointed. His dark skin becomes black feathers. He is a crow sitting on a
tree in a graveyard. In the mist below the tree, a dog is barking up at that
crow. 

A shrouded figure moves through the tombstones, fleetingly illuminated when the
full moon peeks out from behind the dark clouds. When the figure comes closer,
Hampton realizes that it is his father. 

"I need you to see something, my son."

He takes off the cap he was wearing. Hampton sees that it was covering a pair of
horns. His father lowers his head and charges at Hampton, horns first.

Just as he is about to be gored, Hampton spins away, right back into the
courtroom, where the jury is delivering its verdict. Instead of the foreman
reading out the entire result, each juror stands and declares their own verdict.
To Hampton's surprise, Hiram is no longer next to him as his attorney, but
instead is standing in the jury box.  When the judge asked for Hiram's verdict,
he replies, "Guilty!"

Hampton looked at his friend with disbelief. "You too?"

Claude bangs his gavel to bring order but then it is Maxwell's silver hammer,
and it comes down upon Hampton's head. When he comes to, he is in an ancient
jail cell. A Shriner Clown stands just beyond the bars, looking in at him.

Hampton: This cell is *very* dark. 

Clown: Whachoo sayin'? We in a church, and the Lord's light be pour-in' through
the stained glass windows.

Hampton: I am not mad. This cell is damned dark.

Clown: If you think it be dark, maybe the dark is from your eyes? 

Hampton: Man, you jes playin' me for ignorant. Ain't nobody never been abused
like me. 

Clown: What is the opinion of Beyoncé concerning ducks?

Hampton: That the soul of my grandma might be a bird on the wing.

Clown:  You think she right?

Hampton: My grandma ain't no duck.

Clown: Okay, you have it your way. You ain't got the sense God gave a duck *or*
a goose, so you just stay in yo' dark cell.

[The clown walks away, but in walks Norbert from the gospel group. ]

Hampton: Norbert, whachoo you doin' here? 

Norbert: I come to help you find your own voice, and bring the Word to the
people. 

Hampton reaches out to shake Norbert's hand, but Norbert slowly fades away. 

A wagon follows behind, loaded with clay.

And the seeds that were silent are burst into concernancy.

Concerned that Hampton finds himself in the back seat of a 56 Chevy, speeding
north along I26. Alastair and Thaddeus are in the front, discussing the weather.

Alastair said, "Man, it is one hot, cold, sultry day!"

Thaddeus added, "And clear and stormy!"

They take the turn off for Arden, just a few miles south of Asheville. They pull
up along the forested shores of Lake Julian, and stop the car. Simultaneously
they turn to Hampton. "We gotta go piss," they say in unison.

As the pair stand on the bank, peeing into the lake, Alastair says, "Man, this
water cold."

Thaddeus replies, "Yeah, and it deep too!"

Two giant alligators lunge forward out of the mist-covered lake, grab the two
men, and drag them beneath the coal black waters. Hampton assures himself that
he could have done nothing to save them. But now their bodies will be left in
the lake to rot and rot.

Hampton climbs into the front seat of the car that the trio had arrived in, and
turns the key in the ignition. The radio comes on as the car starts:

The more my brother looks like me The less I understand This silent war That's
bloodied both our hands

As Hampton drives away from the lake, he passes, cavorting in the grassy verge: 

- a spellbound Irish rat fleeing a bard, 
- a management meeting of horses, 
- a doe parading with her fawns
- a three-legged hog, munching on a corn husk.

The country road transforms into a major interstate. The sign says he is
heading towards Augusta. He takes the exit for Windsor, and finds himself in
the middle of a protest march. His progress is blocked, so he pulls over to
the side of the road, parks, and gets out of his car. 

He is curious what the protest is about. When he asks, he learns that the
protesters are protesting against the leaders of the previous protest, which
had been organized in opposition to the leaders of the previous, previous
protest. 

The protesters finally decide he is not a boomer, and they will let him
pass. He gets back in his car.

"All's well that ends well!"

But as he tries to put the car into drive, the stick shift and steering
wheel have vanished. Instead, there is a table before him, and chairs to his
sides. The chairs are occupied by Claude and Gertie,  who are chatting,
seemingly not aware that he is there.

"What's that on your dress?" Claude asked. 

"A spot of blood from when I cut my finger the other day. It just won't come
out."

Behind the bar, Agnes and Donna are stirring what appears to be a large jar
of beer. Hampton walks over to the bar and asks them what they are making

Agnes answers, "It's our winter's ale. A special recipe I learned up in
Prosperity, where I grew up." 

Hampton asked for a glass of the ale and then goes and sits at a table. He
is surprised to see that Hiram was already sitting there without Hampton
having noticed him.

Hiram is looking at him and shaking his head woefully.  "Hampton, you a real
dorkus." He pauses, and looks directly into Hampton's eyes.  Sotto voce he
says, "You know Claude was yo' mama's lover way before your daddy died . You
his bastard son."

Outside, it looks as though a thunderstorm is coming.

Hiram takes Hampton by the arm, and says, "Brother, let's go for a walk."

But when they step outside the bar, they are in Sumter Forest. Hiram tells
Hampton, "Let me show you this beautiful lake." But Hampton does not want to
see it; the notion of going there feels just about like running a red light.

As he wishes that Hiram would leave him alone, a black bear  charges out of
the forest, seemingly focused on Hiram. Exit Hiram, pursued by a bear. 

The storm has reached the forest: all the wind-whipped birds are winging
home now.  Hampton is spun around and around by a gust of wind, and when the
spinning stops, he finds himself in a lecture hall at USC, listening to
Professor Callaban discoursing on "The Impact of the Discovery of the New
World on European Culture."

The lecture is interrupted by a piebald dancer, twerking behind the
professor, singing:

"I'm Henry the eighth I am Henry the Eighth, I am, I am I got married to the
widow next door She's been married seven times before And every one of them
was Henry Henry!"

And then Hampton sees that Hiram is in the lecture hall seat next to him.
Hiram asks him, "Ain't we just two noble kin?"

He then began to chuckle and chuckle. But his laughter grew increasingly
unsettling, and his mouth opened wider and wider, as if he were about to
swallow Hampton. The huge mouth became a tunnel, and Hampton felt himself
free-falling down an immense darkness. 

*************

Hampton jolted awake, and realized that he was on Hiram's couch. Hiram was
sitting in an armchair a few feet away, staring at him.

"Brother, it's yo' big day. Time to wakey-wakey!"





